# Morpho Glossary

<table><thead><tr><th width="230">Term</th><th width="197">Reference</th><th width="319">Definition</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Morpho Market</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>A decentralized lending and borrowing market that operates on an overcollateralized basis, enabling users to lend assets for yield or borrow them against collateral.</td></tr><tr><td>Morpho Vault</td><td>Morpho Vault Methodology</td><td>A structure that allocates user loan assets across a selection of Morpho Markets. The vaults have assigned Curators, responsible for determining allocations and managing risk.</td></tr><tr><td>Bad Debt</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>The outstanding loan amount that remains after a liquidation in a Morpho Market, where the value of the collateral is insufficient to fully cover the borrow amount.</td></tr><tr><td>Base Liquidity</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>The baseline available liquidity for the collateral asset and loan asset pair in a Morpho Market, derived from liquidity and pricing data over the preceding 30-day period. It considers market slippage relative to trade size and is used in Liquidation Simulations.</td></tr><tr><td>Daily Return Profile</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>A model of daily price changes for a loan and collateral asset pair, segmented into non-extreme and extreme returns. Non-extreme returns are modeled using a normal distribution, while extreme returns (tail events) are modeled using the Generalized Pareto Distribution (GPD).</td></tr><tr><td>Expected Bad Debt per Scenario Trigger</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>The projected notional amount of bad debt for each Trigger Event. It is a key input for calculating the Monthly PSL.</td></tr><tr><td>Final PSL</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td><p>The Probability of Significant Loss after applying the Oracle Risk Modifier and Protocol Adjustment to the simulated PSL, representing the final quantified risk for a Morpho Market.</p><p>The output is calculated as:</p><p>Final PSL = (Adjusted Market PSL + Morpho Protocol PD) - (Adjusted Market PSL * Morpho Protocol PD)</p></td></tr><tr><td>Health Factor</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>A measure of a borrower's risk of liquidation, calculated as the USD value of collateral multiplied by the LLTV, divided by the USD value of the loan. It indicates how close a position is to the liquidation threshold.</td></tr><tr><td>Liquidation Incentive Factor</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>This parameter defines the liquidation incentive, which rewards liquidators for repaying a borrower's debt by allowing them to seize a larger value of the borrower's collateral. The discount serves as compensation for the liquidator's role in maintaining the protocol's solvency and mitigating risk. It ensures liquidators are motivated to act promptly when a position becomes eligible for liquidation.</td></tr><tr><td>Liquidation Simulations</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>Simulations that evaluate Trigger Events identified in market simulations to analyze the probability and extent of occurrence of bad debt following liquidations. They consider parameters such as liquidity of the asset pair, liquidation incentives, transaction costs and gas cost to quantify the Probability of Significant Loss (PSL).</td></tr><tr><td>Loan Liquidation to Value Ratio (LLTV)</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>A threshold ratio that determines when a borrower's position becomes eligible for liquidation. It is defined as the maximum allowable ratio of borrowed asset value to collateral asset value, beyond which a position becomes eligible for liquidation.</td></tr><tr><td>Loan LTV Tranche</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>Segments of outstanding loans within a Morpho Market categorized by their LTV. Each tranche represents loans grouped by their proximity to the Liquidation Loan-to-Value (LLTV) trigger, serving as inputs into simulations to the likelihood LLTV triggers.</td></tr><tr><td>Market Simulations</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>Monte Carlo-based simulations that project the price behavior of loan and collateral asset pairs over a 30-day horizon. These simulations determine LTV movements and measure the likelihood of occurrence of Trigger Events for liquidation analysis.</td></tr><tr><td>Monthly Probability of LLTV Trigger</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>The likelihood of a Trigger Event occurring within a 30-day period, calculated as the frequency of trigger events over the total number of simulated price paths..</td></tr><tr><td>Monthly PSL</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>The Probability of Significant Loss (PSL) over a 30-day period, calculated as the frequency of events where bad debt exceeds 1% of principal. It is annualized for comparison with the Credora PD Curve.</td></tr><tr><td>No Liquidation Markets</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>Morpho Markets that rely on fixed-price oracles where liquidations cannot occur based on dynamic market prices. </td></tr><tr><td>Oracle Risk Modifier</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>A Modifier applied to the PSL to account for risks arising from oracle misconfigurations, including misaligned price feeds or reliance on hardcoded values, and unknown or unreliable oracle vendors.</td></tr><tr><td>Post-Trigger Returns</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>The price path of an asset following a Trigger Event, which determines the impact of liquidation on the Loan-to-Value (LTV) and potential bad debt.</td></tr><tr><td>Probability of Significant Loss (PSL)</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>The likelihood that a Morpho Market will experience bad debt exceeding 1% of the principal within a defined period. PSL is a core output of the Liquidation Simulation and is annualized for comparison with the Credora PD Curve.</td></tr><tr><td>Protocol Adjustment</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>An adjustment to the PSL to reflect smart contract exploit risks inherent in the Morpho protocol. It is derived using Credora's Smart Contract Sub-Methodology and considers the protocol's operational vulnerabilities.</td></tr><tr><td>Rebalance Model</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>A model that models borrower behavior, predicting the likelihood of borrowers adding collateral to reduce their LTV to avoid liquidations. . It uses factors like the Health Factor and market correlation to model rebalancing behaviour under various conditions.</td></tr><tr><td>Step Function</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>A mechanism that segments daily price moves into smaller intraday steps during Liquidation Simulations. It enables more granular modeling of liquidations, capturing their non-linear impact on Loan-to-Value ratios.</td></tr><tr><td>Trigger Events</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>Instances where a borrower's Loan-to-Value (LTV) surpasses the Liquidation Loan-to-Value (LLTV) in market simulations, indicating that the position is at risk of liquidation. These events are key outputs of the Market Simulation.</td></tr><tr><td>Trigger Volatility</td><td>Morpho Market Methodology</td><td>The volatility of price movements that result in Trigger Events in a market simulation. It is used to adjust liquidity parameters during Liquidation Simulations to account for the market's response under volatile conditions.</td></tr><tr><td>Anchor Vault PSL</td><td>Morpho Vault Methodology</td><td>The weighted average Probability of Significant Loss (PSL) of the underlying Morpho Markets in a Morpho Vault,calculated based on the proportionate allocation of a vault's assets to various underlying Morpho Markets. It provides a portfolio-level risk assessment by reflecting the contributions of each market.</td></tr><tr><td>Curator</td><td>Morpho Vault Methodology</td><td>A Modifier that evaluates the risk associated with the manager of a Morpho Vault, based on experience and track record which signals their ability to allocate assets, manage risks, and adjust strategies. </td></tr><tr><td>Governance</td><td>Morpho Vault Methodology</td><td>A Modifier that assesses protective mechanisms in a vault, such as guardians and timelocks, which help mitigate risks and protect investors from adverse changes and security issues.</td></tr><tr><td>Guardian</td><td>Morpho Vault Methodology</td><td>A Modifier that assesses the oversight mechanism for critical vault actions. Guardians range from no oversight (higher risk) to multi-signature contracts (moderate risk) or DAO governance (enhanced transparency and control).</td></tr><tr><td>Timelock</td><td>Morpho Vault Methodology</td><td>A Modifier that assesses the security delay before critical vault actions. Timelocks give stakeholders time to respond to risks, with longer delays providing better protection against sudden or unauthorized changes.</td></tr></tbody></table>
